.TH __PUSH_COMPOUND_METADATA 1 2026-Feb "" "Save compound metadata to a biocad registry"
.SH NAME
__push_compound_metadata \- __push_compound_metadata(biocad.registry, compound, mol)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI__push_compound_metadata(biocad.registry, compound, mol)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function stores compound metadata into a biocad registry, updating
several related tables including sequence_graph, db_xrefs, and synonyms.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBbiocad.registry\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBcompound\fB \fR\- . A list containing the compound's metadata. Must follow the
structure specified in the Details section.
.PP
.PP
\fBmol\fB \fR\- . A molecule record from the current `biocad_registry`. Must contain
a character `id` property to associate metadata with this molecule.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns `NULL`. This function is called for its side effects.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The `compound` parameter must be a structured list with the following fields:
```r
list(
ID = "unique-id",               # Required: Unique identifier (character)
formula = "formula-string",     # Required: Chemical formula (character)
exact_mass = 0,                 # Required: Exact mass (numeric)
name = "name_string",           # Required: Common name (character)
IUPACName = "name_string",      # Required: IUPAC name (character)
description = "description_string",  # Optional: Description (character)
synonym = c("synonyms", "names"),    # Optional: Character vector of synonyms
xref = list(                    # Optional: Cross-references to external databases
chebi = "",                 # Use "" or omit if unavailable
KEGG = "",
pubchem = "",
HMDB = "",
Wikipedia = "",
lipidmaps = "",
MeSH = "",
MetaCyc = "",
foodb = "",
CAS = "",
InChIkey = "",              # Note: InChIkey/InChI/SMILES are stripped from xref
InChI = "",                 #   and processed separately
SMILES = ""
)
)
```
### Processing Logic:
1. ​**Structure Handling**:
- SMILES strings are parsed (non-strictly) and stored in `sequence_graph`
if valid. Invalid SMILES are skipped.
- InChIkey, InChI, and SMILES fields are removed from `xref` to avoid
duplication; SMILES is explicitly stored in `sequence_graph`.
2. ​**Cross-References**:
- Valid `xref` entries (non-empty strings) are added to `db_xrefs`,
linked to the molecule's `id`. Each entry is checked for duplicates
before insertion.
3. ​**Synonyms**:
- Synonyms are stored in the `synonym` table with MD5 hashes to prevent
duplicates. Only English (`lang = 'en'`) synonyms are supported.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Assume `registry` is a pre-configured biocad_registry
compound <- list(
ID = "C00001",
formula = "H2O",
exact_mass = 18.0106,
name = "Water",
IUPACName = "Oxidane",
synonym = c("H2O", "Dihydrogen monoxide"),
xref = list(pubchem = "962", KEGG = "C00001")
)
mol <- list(id = "molecule_123")  # Pretend this is from biocad_registry
__push_compound_metadata(registry, compound, mol)

#}
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.__push_compound_metadata at push_compound_metadata.R:line 87
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
