.TH PUSH_REACTION 1 2025-Jul "" "Push a single reaction model into the biocad registry database"
.SH NAME
push_reaction \- push_reaction(biocad.registry, reaction, source.db)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIpush_reaction(biocad.registry, reaction, source.db)\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBbiocad.registry\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBreaction\fB \fR\- . A list containing the reaction data to be pushed into the database. See "Details" for the required structure.
.PP
.PP
\fBsource.db\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns `NULL`. The function's primary purpose is to modify the database.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The `reaction` argument must be a list with the following structure: ```r list( entry = "unique_id",                 # Unique identifier for the reaction (string) definition = "name",                  # Reaction name or equation (string) comment = "description_string",       # Optional description or notes (string) enzyme = list("ec_number1", ...),     # List of EC numbers (strings) for enzymatic regulation db_xrefs = list(                      # List of cross-references to external databases list(name = "dbname", text = "xref_id"), ... ), compounds = list(                     # List of compounds involved in the reaction list( side = "role_string",           # Compound role (e.g., "substrate", "product", "*" for unknown) compound = list(                # Compound details entry = "compound_id", name = "compound_name", formula = "chemical_formula", factor = stoichiometric_factor  # Numeric (default = 1.0 if missing) ) ), ... ) ) ``` - If a reaction with the same `entry` exists, it will be ​**updated**​ with new data. - Enzymes, cross-references, and compounds are linked to the reaction entry. Duplicates are skipped. - Compounds with `side = "*"` are ignored (used for placeholder entries).
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\dontrun{ # Example reaction data reaction_data <- list( entry = "R00001", definition = "ATP + H2O -> ADP + Phosphate", comment = "Hydrolysis of ATP", enzyme = list("3.6.1.3"), db_xrefs = list(list(name = "KEGG", text = "R00001")), compounds = list( list( side = "substrate", compound = list(entry = "C00002", name = "ATP", formula = "C10H16N5O13P3", factor = 1) ), list( side = "product", compound = list(entry = "C00008", name = "ADP", formula = "C10H15N5O10P2", factor = 1) ) ) ) # Push to database push_reaction(biocad_registry = my_registry, reaction = reaction_data) }
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
- Use [link_reaction_metabolites()] to resolve compound IDs after pushing reactions. - See the database schema documentation for table structures.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.push_reaction at push_reactions.R:line 81
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2025
